README.md, before:

Azubi-javascript
================

this is the missing repo to teach the core concepts about javascript

usage
---------

The idea is to have failing tests and the azubis have to fix them.

    npm install # once
    npm run all # to run the whole test suite
    npm run single -- <folder> # to run one specific suite


1. Datatypes
-------------

- what datatypes do exist in the programming language JavaScript?  List them!
- what does coersion mean? Give me an example!

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- datatypes```

2. Control structures
---------------------

- what control structures do you know?
- given a loop that prints number from 1 to 5. Implement this with a for loop and a while loop.
- What is a fall-through in context of a switch statement?

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- controlstructures```

3. Arrays
---------------------

- what operations would you do with a list of elements? List them!
- why do you think is this true ```typeof [] ==  "object"```? What makes an object an object in classical programming?

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- arrays```


4. Objects
---------------------

- Objects are container elements are also known as map, hashmap or key-value pair. Not much to it :-)

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- objects```


5. Functions
---------------------

- write a function in three different programming languages that returns the sum of two numbers, which have been given to the function as an argument.
- what is similar in all three implementations? what is different?
- explain variable shadowing. Give me an example!

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- functions```


6. Scope
---------------------

- What is the difference between declaration and definition? How does this relate to the concept of 'hoisting'. Explain!
- Watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZoFlcv2ByBo . 
- What is hoisting again? What scopes does javascript use? List them!

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- scope```


7. Prototypes
---------------------

There are many definitions of 'prototype': 1) an original model on which something is patterned, 2) a standard or typical example, 3) a first full-scale and usually functional form of a new type or design of a construction. For JavaScript the first one applies!

- What types of languages do you know. Try to find 3 groups. 
- What are the main concepts of an object-oriented programming language?
- every property of an js-object has to be stored in memory. Open your favorite browser and try to analyse the memory footprint of a website.


Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- prototypes```

Commit message:

Added Text and Corrected - Datatypes & Controlstructures

README.md, after:

Azubi-javascript
================

this is the missing repo to teach the core concepts about javascript

usage
---------

The idea is to have failing tests and the azubis have to fix them.

    npm install # once
    npm run all # to run the whole test suite
    npm run single -- <folder> # to run one specific suite


1. Datatypes
-------------

- what datatypes do exist in the programming language JavaScript?  List them!
Javascript doesn't have datatypes in the traditional sense. There are a lot of implicit conversions going on in the background, so everything is *dynamic*.
Off the top of my head there are: Number, String, Boolean, Object, Array, and undefined.
Null exists but is treated as an object afaik

- what does coersion mean? Give me an example!
Coercion is the name used for the system of automatic implicit data conversion in Javascript.

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- datatypes```

2. Control structures
---------------------

- what control structures do you know?
if/else if/else, for, (do) while, switch/case, with. I'm not sure if try/catch counts to this as well but I doubt it.

- given a loop that prints number from 1 to 5. Implement this with a for loop and a while loop.
```javascript
for(let i = 1; i <= 5; i++) { console.log(i); }
//--------------------------------------------
let i = 1;
while(i <= 5){
    console.log(i);
    i++;
}
```

- What is a fall-through in context of a switch statement?
Fallthrough will execute all other applicable cases in the switch statement under the entry point if the first case isn't ended with a "break;" to jump out of the switch statement.

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- controlstructures```

3. Arrays
---------------------

- what operations would you do with a list of elements? List them!
- why do you think is this true ```typeof [] ==  "object"```? What makes an object an object in classical programming?

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- arrays```


4. Objects
---------------------

- Objects are container elements are also known as map, hashmap or key-value pair. Not much to it :-)

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- objects```


5. Functions
---------------------

- write a function in three different programming languages that returns the sum of two numbers, which have been given to the function as an argument.
- what is similar in all three implementations? what is different?
- explain variable shadowing. Give me an example!

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- functions```


6. Scope
---------------------

- What is the difference between declaration and definition? How does this relate to the concept of 'hoisting'. Explain!
- Watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZoFlcv2ByBo . 
- What is hoisting again? What scopes does javascript use? List them!

Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- scope```


7. Prototypes
---------------------

There are many definitions of 'prototype': 1) an original model on which something is patterned, 2) a standard or typical example, 3) a first full-scale and usually functional form of a new type or design of a construction. For JavaScript the first one applies!

- What types of languages do you know. Try to find 3 groups. 
- What are the main concepts of an object-oriented programming language?
- every property of an js-object has to be stored in memory. Open your favorite browser and try to analyse the memory footprint of a website.


Now solve the test suite by fixing all the tests:

```npm run single -- prototypes```
